[Music]
this is the sub hangar where you'd
normally only have subs and lots of kit
and scuba gear being south but tonight
it's the US premiere of blue planet - so
it's all being set up a little bit crazy
come with me though as I look at the
subs there are two subs on the elucha
this one in deep Rover - and then one
over here is called nadir they go down
to a thousand meters there amazing
amazing well when a day will take you
into Mission Control hey Victor oh nice
to see me so this is Mission Control
what goes on here this is the central
point of all scientific data acquisition
processing and distribution which means
every scientific instrument onboard ship
sensors they searched this area
besides the information from their
scientific equipment we have 36 cameras
onboard there's a telephone underwater
telephone there's Cena which is a
extremely precise GPS system you know
GPS you having you in your for anybody
now that one is like thousand times more
precise than your phone because we need
to know exactly where we are
so tell me a little bit about the inputs
where do you get those those data inputs
from basically what you see here in the
screen is something that we measure 24/7
that is humidity temperature of the air
temperature of the sea salinity for in
the water we use systems that need this
information to actually work let's say
result system which is multi beam ocean
floor mapping like a stereo system sonar
system only imagine you its owners using
just one be right sends down or
horizontally it measures the distance
and come back that's it
imagine you have 515 solos sending beams
down to the bottom and come back as the
boat moves we take more and more and
more of this data and this can
be graphically represented as what the
bottom looks like underneath in order
for this device to work properly you
need to know the velocity of sound in
the water which changes if the
temperature salinity is the limit the
end this is why we need this so one
thing leads to another we can't operate
three zone unless we have this accurate
this is a proper deep dream this is the
best job in the world
it is really thank you for thank you for
showing me them this is I love this room
this is so good I'm going to leave you
to it when you get on with my tour but
absolute pleasure thank you
[Music]
this is the heli deck because sometimes
on the loose show you have a helicopter
coming on quite often the missions take
weeks or weeks often months and you can
use the hell you to get people on and
off and sometimes force counting as well
and come up here come to the end
this is the giant a-frame you can see so
the a-frame would be used to pick up the
submersible to carry it out over the
water and then carefully lower it down
where it's then unattached by the
swimmer very very cool kit anyway next
stop is the bridge it will ignore that
sign there you must be captain Pete nice
to meet you most of you sober that's a
lot of knobs and dials yeah we've got
lots of toys on board oh right here this
is where we drive the ship from we've
got a ship's wheel that's a very small
wheel small wheel a little bit
underwhelming and all the weird things
can be done with small items we also
have our engine controls elucha we have
two main engines are the drive two
propellers and we also have a 360 degree
jet bow thruster basically it's a jet on
the front of the ship and we can direct
it forward back there powers the ship
left or right or actually ahead as well
that's a really nice idea because that
gives you much finer control exactly
that we don't use it all the time so
that's in when we're coming alongside
going in another port and also when
we're doing our submarine pickups and
drop-offs it gives us the fine control
that we need to drop the ship there are
the slopes in exactly the right place
this looks like a relic from the past is
it usable again still usable it's on
magnetic compass so if all else fails we
can still make our way home what's your
favorite element of all of that I love
driving the ship that's my pleasure I
can kinda zone out and that's where I
get my relaxation when I'm operating
this ship I would not find that relaxing
I've done it for a while now I mean it's
a almost 30 years now most of it spent
on cruise ships I came to only share
four years ago it's a unique experience
and a unique ship and we do amazing
things it's a very exciting ship that we
follow
[Music]
there's a crew of about 20 to 24 on NuLu
chef their quarters are down below but
you also get scientists and media guests
and these are their quarters
very very nice can sleep 16 and there's
a place up top where everyone can hang
out together as the Sun Deck is supposed
to be called the Sun Deck not great
weather in Florida at the moment so this
is the mass that has meteorological
detection equipment it's got the
satellites it's got the GPS give the
accuracy of the ship to that sort of
scale which is just incredible this boat
the elucha is just wonderful because it
combines cutting edge science with the
latest tech and engineering but also
media the communication of all of that
I'm not going to go and do my Titanic
impression because it'd be rude not to
[Music]
it's bit lonely doing it by yourself is
me idiot cheesy